Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Ans : We need data structure because it stores data in an organized, efficient manner.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Ans: Creation, insertion, deletion, searching, sorting, traversing, merging, appending and updating.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Ans: Compiler design, operating system, DBMS, graphics, simulation, numerical analysis, artificial intelligence

what is an Array?
Ans:  An array is a container that stores a fixed number of values in a single variable, instead of declaring separate variables for each value.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Ans: An array has a fixed number of values inside of it's variable.  The values in an array list can be changed.  An array is a basic functionality
provided by Java and array list is a class of Java Collections framework.

what is LinkedList?
A linked list is an ordered collection of elements of the same type that are connected to each other using pointers.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Ans:  An array is used to store data of similiar type.  A linked list is an ordered collection of elements of the same type that are
connected to each other using pointers.
It is easier to delete and insert in a linked list.  If we want to delete a number in an array, we have to delete all the numbers after
the number we want deleted as well.

what is queue?
Ans : Queue is an interface.  To use queue, you can use classes like linked list, array deque, priority queue. A queue works like a
line at a supermarket.  When a value is inserted at the end, a value is removed from the beginning of the queue.  This is the first in, first
out approach.

what is stack?
Ans: A stack is a linear list of data that is used to store a collection of objects. The two main operations for stack
are push and pop.  Push adds an element at the very top of the stack and push removes the most recently added element.
It uses the last in, first out approach.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans: FIFO is first in, first out.  When a value is inserted at the end, a value is removed from the beginning of the queue.
LIFO is last in, first out.  The most recent data stored is the first to come out.

what is the order of complexity?
Ans:

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Ans:

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans:

what is tree in data structure?
Ans: A tree is a non-linear, hierarchical data structure. Each tree has a root and roots may or may not have nodes.  The nodes will
connected to the root by edges.  Each node contains a value or data. A child node cannot have two parent nodes.

what is graph in data structure?
Ans: A graph is a non-linear data structure.  The data in a graph is stored in edges and nodes which are interconnected.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Ans: HashTable is thread safe and sychronized. HashMap is not thread safe and non-synchronized. HashTable is fast and HashMap
is slow.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
Ans: RDBMS - Array
Network Data Model - Graph
Hierarchical Data Model - Tree

How HashMap works in java?
Ans: HashMap stores data based on a key-value structure.  It uses the hash function to map keys to their associated values.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Ans: This exception Java throws when data does not exist in the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Ans: You can manually copy elements by using loop, create a clone of the array, use Arrays.copyOf() method or System.arrayCopy().

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Ans:  An array is used to store data of similiar type.  A linked list is an ordered collection of elements of the same type that are
connected to each other using pointers.
It is easier to delete and insert in a linked list.  If we want to delete a number in an array, we have to delete all the numbers after
the number we want deleted as well.

What is DFS and BFS?
Ans: BFS stands for Breadth First Search. Breadth First Search uses Queue data structure for finding the shortest path.
DFS stands for Depth First Search.  Depth First Search uses Stack data structure.

What is Recursion?
Ans: Recursion is a technique of making a function call itself.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Ans: In linear data structures, elements are arranged to connect with one another in a linear order.  The element attaches to
it's previous element and it's next element.  In non-linear data structures, the elements are attached in a hierarchical manner and
are present at various levels.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Ans: How time scaled with respect to some input variables.  Measuring the time and space complexity of an algorithm in terms of
the growth of input size n.

